
                            REVISED EDITION




                        _Your All-time Favorite_
                                AFGHANS
                           TO KNIT or CROCHET
                  _in Bear Brand and_ Fleisher _Yarns_
                             Vol. 44    50¢


                       Granny Afghan (See Page 18)




              RIPPLE AFGHAN WITH MATCHING PILLOW No. 4612


            Approximate Blocked Size 50 inches by 72 inches

                                 COLOR KEY
            QUANTITY                            MATERIALS
   Color    Ounces     Ounces    Bear Brand DeLuxe   Fleisher’s Superior
    Key     Needed     Needed     Knitting Worsted     Knitting Worsted
          For Afghan For Pillow

     A        2          2           Yellow 53            Yellow 153
     B        2          2           Yellow 54            Yellow 154
     C        2          2           Yellow 55            Yellow 155
     D        2          2           Orange 56            Orange 156
     E        5          2        Russet Brown 380     Russet Brown 480
     F        9          2        Russet Brown 381     Russet Brown 481
     G        9          4        Russet Brown 382     Russet Brown 482
     H        9          4        Russet Brown 383     Russet Brown 483
     I        9          4        Russet Brown 384     Russet Brown 484
     J        9          4        Russet Brown 385     Russet Brown 485
     K        9          4        Russet Brown 43      Russet Brown 143
              4          4             Black                Black

  “Boye” Crochet Hook, Size 3 (F).
  GAUGE: 9 sts = 2 inches


                         DIRECTIONS FOR AFGHAN

Row 1—With K, ch 304, work 1 sc in 2nd ch from hook, sc in next ch, skip
next ch, * sc in each of next 10 chs, 3 sc in next ch, sc in each of
next 10 chs, skip next 2 chs; rpt from * 12 times, at end of last rpt
skip only 1 ch then work 1 sc in each of last 2 chs, fasten off.

Row 2—Turn, always working in back loop of sts, with K, work 1 sc in
each of first 2 sc, skip next sc, * sc in each of next 10 sc, 3 sc in
next sc (point), sc in each of next 10 sc, skip next 2 sc; rpt from * 12
times, at end of last rpt skip only 1 sc then work 1 sc in each of last
2 sc, fasten off. Rpt row 2 for pattern using colors as follows: 2 rows
each of J, I, H, G, F, E; * 1 row each of A, B, C, D; 2 rows each of
Black, K, J, I, H, G, F, E; rpt from * twice. † Work 4 rows each of K,
J, I, H, G, F then 2 rows of E; rpt from † 3 times. Work 2 rows each of
K, J, I, H, G, F, E; ** 1 row each of A, B, C, D; 2 rows each of Black,
K, J, I, H, G, F, E; rpt from ** twice at end of last rpt omit 2 rows of
E.


                         DIRECTIONS FOR PILLOW

With A, ch 389, sc in 2nd ch from hook and in each of next 5 chs, 3 sc
in next ch, sc in each of 6 chs, * skip 2 chs, sc in each of 6 chs, 3 sc
in next ch, sc in each of 6 chs; rpt from * across, join (with sl st) in
first sc, fasten off.

Rnd 2—Turn, always work in back loop of sts, with B loop on hook, skip
joined st and next sc, * sc in each of next 6 sc, 3 sc in next sc
(Point), sc in each of next 6 sc, skip next 2 sc; rpt from * around,
join in back loop of first sc, fasten off. Rpt rnd 2 for pattern using
colors as follows: 1 rnd each of C, D; 2 rnds each of Black, K, J, I, H,
G, F, E; 1 rnd each of A, B, C, D; 2 rnds each of Black, K, J, I, H, G,
F, E; 1 rnd each of A, B, C, D; 2 rnds each of Black, K, J, I, H, G.

CENTER—With G, ch 4, join into ring, work 8 sc in ring, work a loop st
in next st as follows: insert hook in next st, wind yarn 3 times around
end of left forefinger, insert hook under loops on finger, with middle
finger of right hand hold down all loops now on hook, free left
forefinger, yo and thru all but last loop on hook, yo and thru last 2
loops on hook (loop st made), work a loop st in each of next 7 sts; 2 sc
in each of 8 loop sts; a loop st in each of 16 sts; 2 sc in each of 16
loop sts; work 32 loop sts, fasten off. With H, * sc in each of 3 sts, 2
sc in next st; rpt from * around (40 sts); work 40 loop sts; † sc in
each of 4 sts, 2 sc in next st; rpt from † 7 times; work 48 loop sts,
fasten off. With I, ** sc in each of 5 sts, 2 sc in next st; rpt from **
around (56 sts). Work 56 loop sts, fasten off. Work another Center only
use colors B, C, D.

FINISHING—With double yarn, catch each of 26 points together and draw to
a 3 inch opening. Insert suitable pillow form and draw opposite points
together in same way. Sew Centers over openings.

          For Canadian Knitters—Equivalent British Needle Sizes

  American (Boye) Sizes   0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10 10½ 11 13  15
  British Sizes          14 13 11 10  9  8  7  7  6  5   4   3  1 00 000

    [Illustration: RIPPLE AFGHAN]




                        HERITAGE AFGHAN No. 3280


                Approximate Size 50 inches by 72 inches

                                 COLOR KEY
       QUANTITY                            MATERIALS

  Color Key  Ounces       Bear Brand DeLuxe        Fleisher’s Superior
             Needed       Knitting Worsted          Knitting Worsted
      B         6               Red 4                    Red 104
      C         3               Red 5                    Red 105
      D         3               Red 6                    Red 106
      E         3            Cardinal 8               Cardinal 108
      L         3              Wine 9                   Wine 109
      F         5             Maroon 12                Maroon 112
               48               Black                     Black

            QUANTITY           BUCILLA EVER-MATCH TAPESTRY WOOL

      A      40 yds.                     Ash Rose—1953
      G      40 yds.                   Italian Blue—1998
      H      40 yds.                   French Blue—1999
      J      40 yds.                  Colonial Blue—1963
      K      40 yds.                  Colonial Blue—1989
      M      40 yds.                   Antique Gold—1984
      N      40 yds.                      Brown—1969
      O      40 yds.                    Fern Green—1920
      P      40 yds.                    Fern Green—1921
      S      40 yds.                    Fern Green-1924
      R      40 yds.                    Soft Green—1867
      Y      40 yds.                    Teal Blue—1950
      U      40 yds.                    Teal Blue—1951
      V      40 yds.                      White—1928
    X & T    60 yds.                       Grey—1940

  “Boye” 9-inch Crochet Hook, Size F.
  “Boye” 5½-inch Crochet Hook, Size 3 (F).
  GAUGE: Afghan St—
    9 sts = 2 inches
    9 rows = 2 inches
  GAUGE: Shaded Pattern—
    9 sts = 2 inches
    4 rows = 1 inch

AFGHAN STITCH PANEL (MAKE 3)—Using 9-in. crochet hook, with Black, ch 45
and work in Afghan Stitch (see page 23) for 307 rows. Finish off with a
row of sl sts, fasten off. Embroider Panels with cross-stitch embroidery
following embroidery and arrangement charts, see page 20. Make sure to
skip the number of rows indicated on arrangement chart.

SHADED PATTERN—Work all rows from right side—Using 5½-inch crochet hook,
with Black loop on hook, from right side, working along long side of
Panel, work 1 sc in end of each row (307 sc), fasten off. Row 2—With
Black loop on hook, working in back loop of sts, work 1 sc in first st,
a Cable (a long dc) thru first free Afghan-St bar directly below, always
skip st at back of Cable, sc in each of next 2 sts, * work a Cable thru
first free Afghan-St bar directly below, sc in each of next 2 sts, work
a Cable thru first free Afghan-St bar directly below, sc in each of next
3 sts, a Cable in next bar, sc in each of next 2 sts, a Cable in next
bar, sc in each of next 2 sts, a Cable in next bar, sc in each of next 2
sts; rpt from * across, end last rpt with 1 sc, fasten off. Hereafter
always work in back loop of sts. Row 3—With B, sc in each of first 2
sts, * a Cable around post of next sc 2nd row down directly below, sc in
each of next 2 sts, a Cable around post of next sc 2nd row down, sc in
each of 2 sts, a Cable in next sc 2nd row down, sc in next st; rpt from
* across, end 1 sc in last st, fasten off. Row 4—With B, † sc in each of
3 sts, a Cable around post of next st 2nd row down directly below
(always work Cable in this manner), * sc in each of 2 sts, a Cable; rpt
from * three times; rpt from † across, end, 1 sc in each of last 3 sts,
fasten off. Row 5—With C, sc in each of 4 sts, * a Cable, sc in each of
2 sts, a Cable, sc in each of 3 sts, a Cable, sc in each of 2 sts, a
Cable, sc in each of 5 sts; rpt from * across, ending with 4 sc, fasten
off. Row 6—With D, sc in each of 5 sts, * a Cable, sc in each of 2 sts,
a Cable, sc in next st, a Cable, sc in each of 2 sts, a Cable, sc in
each of 7 sts; rpt from * across, ending with 5 sc, fasten off. Row
7—With E, sc in first st, a Cable, * sc in each of 4 sts, a Cable, sc in
each of 2 sts, a Cable, sc in each of 2 sts, a Cable, sc in each of 4
sts, a Cable; rpt from * across, end, sc in last st, fasten off. Row
8—With L, sc in each of 2 sts, * a Cable, sc in each of 4 sts, a Cable,
sc in each of 3 sts, a Cable, sc in each of 4 sts, a Cable, sc in next
st; rpt from * across, end, sc in last st, fasten off. Row 9—With F, sc
in each of first 3 sts, * a Cable, sc in each of 4 sts, a Cable, sc in
next st, a Cable, sc in each of 4 sts, a Cable, sc in each of 3 sts; rpt
from * across, fasten off. Row 10—With F, sc in each of 4 sts, * a
Cable, sc in each of 4 sts, a Cable, sc in each of 4 sts, a Cable, sc in
each of 5 sts; rpt from * across, ending with 4 sc, fasten off. Row
11—With Black, sc in first st, a Cable, * sc in each of 3 sts, a Cable,
sc in each of 7 sts, a Cable, sc in each of 3 sts, a Cable; rpt from *
across, end, sc in last st, fasten off. Work same Shaded Pattern on
opposite side of Panel. Arrange Strips in place as shown on arrangement
chart, page 20. With Black, sew Strips together with an overhead st
(matching patterns). With Black, keeping edge flat, work a row of sc on
each short side of Afghan, fasten off.

FRINGE—Wind Black on a 3½-inch cardboard, cut at one end. Tie a 3 strand
Fringe in each sc along each short side of Afghan.

    [Illustration: HERITAGE AFGHAN]




                     KNITTED RIPPLE AFGHAN No. 2757


                Approximate Size 50 inches by 72 inches

                                 COLOR KEY
            QUANTITY                            MATERIALS
                       Ounces    Bear Brand Deluxe   Fleisher’s Superior
                       Needed     Knitting Worsted     Knitting Worsted

     OMBREE STRIPS       40       Ombree Rust 020      Ombree Rust X20
  SOLID COLOR STRIPS     14          Rustone 29          Rustone 129

This Afghan can be made in any other desired color.

  “Boye” Knitting Needles, 1 pair Size 6.
  GAUGE FOR GARTER ST—
    9 sts = 2 inches
    15 ridges = 4 inches

OMBREE STRIP (MAKE 7)—With Ombree Rust, cast on 18 sts and k 4 rows (2
ridges) in garter st.

PATTERN—Row 1—K 3, * wrap yarn around needle twice, k 1; rpt from * to
within last 3 sts, yarn over once, k last 3 sts (43 sts). Row 2 (right
side)—K 3, drop next wrap st, * p 2, drop next wrap st; rpt from * to
within last 3 sts, k 3 (30 sts). Row 3—K 3, k 2 tog., k 20, k 2 tog., k
3 (28 sts). Row 4—K 3, k 2 tog., k 18, k 2 tog., k 3 (25 sts). Row 5—K
3, p 2 tog. twice, p 12, p 2 tog. twice, k 3 (22 sts). Row 6—K 3, k 2
tog. twice, k 8, k 2 tog. twice, k 3 (18 sts). Rpt these 6 rows for
pattern until 96 patterns are completed then k 2 rows (work should
measure 64 ins.). Bind off.

SOLID COLOR STRIP (MAKE 8)—With Rustone, cast on 8 sts, knit each row
(garter st) until there are as many ridges as on side of Ombree Strip.
Bind off.

FINISHING—Arrange Strips in place as shown on chart (see page 22)
(alternating 1 Solid Strip and 1 Ombree Strip) with pattern curving
upward in one Ombree Strip and downward in the next Ombree Strip. From
wrong side, sew Strips together matching ridges at sides of Strips.

FRINGE—Wind yarn around a 5-inch cardboard, cut at one end. Matching
colors, tie a 2 strand Fringe in every other st along top and bottom of
Afghan.




                        PILGRIM AFGHAN No. 2024


                         (_Shown on back cover_)

                Approximate Size 49 inches by 71 inches

                                 COLOR KEY
       QUANTITY                            MATERIALS

  Color Key  Ounces       Bear Brand Deluxe        Fleisher’s Superior
             Needed       Knitting Worsted          Knitting Worsted
      P        28             Oyster 81                Oyster 181
      R         8         Russet Brown 381          Russet Brown 481
      T         8         Russet Brown 382          Russet Brown 482
      E         8         Russet Brown 384          Russet Brown 484
      L         8          Russet Brown 40          Russet Brown 140
      N         4             Green 95                  Green 195
      H         4             Green 96                  Green 196
      J         4             Green 97                  Green 197
      K         4             Green 80                  Green 180
                2               Black                     Black

            QUANTITY           BUCILLA EVER-MATCH TAPESTRY WOOL

      A      40 yds.                    Rose Beige—1900
      B      40 yds.                    Coppertone—1995
      C      40 yds.                   Dark Copper—1996
      D      40 yds.                       Plum—1897

  “Boye” 9-inch Crochet Hook, Size F.
  “Boye” 5½-inch Crochet Hook, Size 3 (F).
  GAUGE: Bead Stitch Panel—
    9 sts = 2 inches
    4 rows = 1 inch
  Afghan Stitch Panel—
    9 sts = 2 inches
    9 rows = 2 inches

                                           _(Continuation from Page 16)_

AFGHAN STITCH PANEL (MAKE 3)—Using 9-inch hook, with P, ch 28, work in
Afghan Stitch (see page 23) for 286 rows. Finish off with a row of sl
sts. Fasten off. Embroider Panels with cross-stitch embroidery following
embroidery and arrangement charts (see page 21). Make sure to skip the
number of rows indicated on arrangement chart.

BEAD STITCH PANEL (MAKE 4)—Work all rows from right side—Using 5½-inch
hook, with P, ch 288, work 1 sc in 2nd ch from hook, sc in each
remaining ch (287 sc), fasten off. Row 2—With P loop on hook, work 1 sc
in first sc, work a Bead-st in next sc as follows: draw up a loop in sc,
[yo thru 1 loop] 3 times, yo thru 2 loops on hook (Bead-st made),
keeping Bead-st in front of work, sc in next sc, * Bead-st in next sc,
sc in next sc; rpt from * across, fasten off. Row 3—With R loop on hook,
work 1 sc in first sc, sc in top of next Bead-st, * a Bead-st in next
sc, sc in top of next Bead-st; rpt from * to last sc, sc in last sc,
fasten off. Row 4—With T loop on hook, sc in first sc, a Bead-st in next
sc, * sc in top of next Bead-st, a Bead-st in next sc; rpt from * to
last sc, sc in last sc, fasten off. Rpt rows 3 and 4 alternately for
pattern using the following color sequence: 1 row each of E, L, N, H, J,
K, R, T, E, L, Black (Black is center of Panel), L, E, T, R, K, J, H, N,
L, E, T, R, P.

Final row—With P, work 1 sc in each st across, fasten off. Arrange
panels in place as shown on arrangement chart (see page 21). From wrong
side, with matching color sew panels together.

FRINGE—Wind yarn around a 4½-inch cardboard, cut at one end. With
matching colors, tie a 2 strand fringe for each row along top and bottom
of Afghan.

    [Illustration: KNITTED RIPPLE AFGHAN]




                       PINE TREE AFGHAN No. 2272


                Approximate Size 50 inches by 72 inches

                                 COLOR KEY
       QUANTITY                            MATERIALS

  Color Key  Ounces       Bear Brand Deluxe        Fleisher’s Superior
             Needed       Knitting Worsted          Knitting Worsted
      A        27         Russet Brown 380          Russet Brown 480
      B         9         Russet Brown 381          Russet Brown 481
      C        12         Russet Brown 383          Russet Brown 483
      D        12         Russet Brown 384          Russet Brown 484
      E        13          Russet Brown 40          Russet Brown 140

  “Boye” 9-inch Crochet Hook, Size F.
  “Boye” 5½-inch Crochet Hook, Size 3 (F).
  GAUGE: Afghan-St—
    9 sts = 2 inches
    4 rows = 1 inch
  Shaded Pattern—
    4 sts = 1 inch
    4 rows = 1 inch

AFGHAN-ST PANEL (MAKE 5)—Using 9-in. crochet hook, with A, ch 20 and
work in Afghan-st (page 23) for 5 rows. † Row 6 (Bead-st Pattern)—Draw
up a loop as before thru each bar (20 loops on hook), work off first 10
loops on hook as for Afghan-st then ch 4, yo and thru both ch loop and
next loop on hook (Bead-st made), work off remaining loops as for
Afghan-st. Row 7—Draw up a loop thru each bar of previous row, keeping
Bead-st to front (right side) of work (20 loops on hook), work off first
9 loops, * ch 4, yo and thru both ch loop and next loop on hook (Bead-st
made), yo, draw thru 2 loops on hook *; rpt between *’s once, work off
remaining loops on hook. Row 8—Draw up a loop thru each bar of previous
row, keeping Bead-st to front (right side) of work (20 loops on hook),
work off first 8 loops; rpt between *’s of row 7 three times, work off
remaining loops. Row 9—Draw up a loop thru each bar (20 loops), work off
7 loops; rpt between *’s of row 7 four times, work off remaining loops.
Row 10—Draw up a loop thru each bar (20 loops), work off 6 loops; rpt
between *’s of row 7 five times, work off remaining loops; Then rpt rows
9, 8, 7, 6. Work 7 rows in Afghan-st. Rpt from † for pattern 15 times
ending last rpt with only 5 rows in Afghan-st (16 Diamond Patterns),
finish off with a row of sl sts. Fasten off.

SHADED PATTERN—Work all rows from right side—With E, make a loop on
5½-in. hook, working along long side of Panel, work 1 SC in end st of
each of first 3 rows, * work a tr under bar of 4th st in next row, skip
row in back of tr, sc in each of next 3 rows; rpt from * across, fasten
off. Row 2—Hereafter always work in back loop of sts—With E, sc in each
of first 4 sts, * work a tr in 3rd st of next Afghan-st row, hereafter
always skip st back of tr, sc in each of next 3 sts; rpt from * across,
end with 2 sc, fasten off. Row 3—With E, sc in each of first 5 sts, *
work a tr in 2nd st of next Afghan-st row, sc in each of next 3 sts; rpt
from * across, end with 1 sc, fasten off. Row 4—With D, sc in each of
first 2 sts, * work a tr in first st of next Afghan-st row, sc in each
of next 3 sts; rpt from * across, end with 4 sc, fasten off. Row 5—With
D, sc in each of first 3 sts, work a tr in free loop above first tr of
row 1, sc in each of next 3 sts, * a tr in free loop above next tr, sc
in each of next 3 sts; rpt from * across, fasten off. Row 6—With D, sc
in each of first 4 sts, * a tr in free loop above next tr of row 2, sc
in each of next 3 sts; rpt from * across, end with 2 sc, fasten off. Row
7—With C, sc in first st, a tr in free loop of 2nd st of row 3, sc in
each of 3 sts; continue in pattern across, end with 1 sc, fasten off.
Row 8—With C, sc in each of first 2 sts, a tr in free loop above next tr
of row 4 below, sc in each of 3 sts; continue in pattern across, end
with 4 sc, fasten off. Row 9—With C, sc in each of first 3 sts, a tr in
free loop above next tr of row 5 below, sc in each of 3 sts; continue in
pattern across, fasten off. Row 10—With B, sc in each of first 4 sts, a
tr in free loop above next tr of row 6 below, sc in each of next 3 sts;
continue in pattern across, fasten off. Row 11—With B, sc in first st, a
tr in free loop of 2nd st of row 7, sc in each of 3 sts; continue in
pattern across, fasten off. Work same Shaded Pattern on opposite side of
Panel to correspond.

FINISHING—Lay 2 strips together with Shaded Pattern sloping in same
direction on both strips as shown. From right side, sew strips together.
Join all strips in same way.

BORDER—Work all rnds from right side, with E, work 1 sc in each st along
long sides and about 1 sc in each row along short sides and 3 sc in each
corner, join (with sl st) in first sc, fasten off. Rnd 2—With E, work 3
dc in any corner st, * ch 1, skip next 3 sts, 3 dc in next st; rpt from
* to next corner, ch 1, 3 dc in corner st; continue in same way around,
join in first dc, fasten off. Rnd 3—With D, work 3 dc in center dc of
corner 3-dc group, * ch 1, 3 dc in next ch-1 sp; rpt from * to next
corner, ch 1, 3 dc in center dc of corner group; continue in same way
around, join, fasten off. Rnd 4—With C, rpt rnd 3. Rnd 5—With B, work [2
dc, ch 1, 2 dc] in center dc of a corner group, * ch 1, [2 dc, ch 1, 2
dc] in next ch-1 sp; rpt from * to next corner, ch 1, [2 dc, ch 1, 2 dc]
in corner dc; continue in same way around, join, fasten off. Rnd 6—With
A, work [2 sc, ch 1, 2 sc] in ch-1 sp of any corner Shell, sc in next
ch-1 sp (between Shells), [2 sc, ch 1, 2 sc] in ch-1 sp of next Shell;
continue in same way around, join, fasten off.

    [Illustration: PINE TREE AFGHAN]




                         EMPIRE AFGHAN No. 1676


                Approximate Size 52 inches by 73 inches

                                 COLOR KEY
       QUANTITY                            MATERIALS

  Color Key  Ounces       Bear Brand DeLuxe        Fleisher’s Superior
             Needed       Knitting Worsted          Knitting Worsted
      A         7              Grey 60                  Grey 160
      B         7              Grey 61                  Grey 161
      C         7              Grey 63                  Grey 163
      D         8              Grey 74                  Grey 174
      E         8              Grey 65                  Grey 165
                6               Black                     Black
      F        10            Old Rose 85              Old Rose 185
      G         7            Old Rose 86              Old Rose 186
      H         7            Old Rose 87              Old Rose 187
      I        10            Old Rose 88              Old Rose 188
      J        16            Old Rose 92              Old Rose 192

  “Boye” 9-inch Crochet Hook, Size G.
  “Boye” 5½-inch Crochet Hook, Size 5 (G).
  GAUGE:
    4 sts=1 inch
    4 rows=1 inch

AFGHAN STITCH STRIP (MAKE 2)—Using 9-in. crochet hook, with J ch 15 and
work in Afghan St (see page 23) for 279 rows. Finish off with a row of
sl sts. Fasten off.

SHADED PATTERN—Using 5½-in. crochet hook, with F make a loop on hook,
from right side, working along long side of Afghan Stitch Strip, work 1
sc in end of first 3 rows, work a Claw-st as follows: yo, draw up a loop
thru 2nd Afghan-St bar directly below last sc made, yo thru 2 loops on
hook (holding 2 loops on hook), yo twice, draw up a loop thru 3rd bar of
next row, [yo thru 2 loops on hook] twice (holding 3 loops on hook), yo,
draw up a loop in 2nd Afghan-St bar on next row, yo thru 2 loops
(holding 4 loops on hook), yo thru 3 loops on hook, yo thru last 2 loops
on hook (Claw-st made), skip next row (directly back of Claw-st), work 1
sc in each of next 7 rows, * work a Claw-st as before, skip next row
(back of Claw-st), 1 sc in each of next 7 rows; rpt from * across ending
last rpt with only 3 sc, fasten off. Row 2—Turn, with F loop on hook,
work 1 sc in each st across (279 sc in row). Row 3—Ch 1, turn, work 1 sc
in first sc, work a Puff-st in next sc 2nd row down as follows: yo, draw
up a loop around post of 2nd sc, yo, draw thru 2 loops on hook, * yo,
draw up a loop around post of same sc, yo, thru 2 loops; rpt from *
once, yo, draw thru 3 loops on hook, yo, thru last 2 loops on hook
(Puff-st made), † skip sc back of Puff-st just made, work 1 sc in each
of next 3 sc, a Puff-st around post of next sc 2nd row down; rpt from †
to within last sc, 1 sc in last sc. Row 4—Ch 1, turn, work 1 sc in each
st across (279 sc). Row 5—Ch 1, turn, work 1 sc in each of first 3 sc, *
work a Puff-st around post of next sc 2nd row down (center st of 3-sc
group), skip sc back of Puff-st, 1 sc in each of next 3 sc; rpt from *
across. Fasten off. Rpt rows 2 to 5 inclusive for pattern (4 rows) using
the following color sequence: 4 rows each of G, H, I, J. With Black work
1 sc row and 1 Puff-st row. Work 4 rows each of A, B, C, D, E. Matching
sts, work same shaded pattern on opposite side of same Strip. Complete
other Afghan Stitch Strip to correspond.

FINISHING—From wrong side with E, join the 2 Strips together with a row
of sl sts. Fasten off.

BORDER—Work all rnds from right side—Rnd 1—With J make a loop on hook,
work 1 sc in each st along long sides, 1 sc in each row along short
sides and 3 sc in each corner, join (with sl st) in first sc (having the
same number of sts on opposite sides), fasten off. Rnd 2—With E work 3
sc in any corner st, work 1 sc in each sc to next corner sc, 3 sc in
corner sc (having a multiple of 5 plus 1 sc from corner st to corner
st). Work other sides in same way, join, fasten off. Rnd 3—With J work 1
sc in 2nd sc before a corner sc, skip next sc, work [Open Shell of 1 dc,
ch 1, 1 dc, ch 1, 1 dc] in corner sc (Open Shell made), * skip next 2
sc, sc in next sc, skip next sc, Open Shell in next sc; rpt from * to
next corner (having a Shell in corner st); work other sides in same way,
join, fasten off. Rnd 4—With Black work 3 dc in sc before a corner Open
Shell, ch 1, work 1 sc in top of center dc of corner Open Shell, ch 1, 3
dc in next sc after corner Open Shell, * 1 sc in top of center dc on
next Open Shell, 3 dc in next sc after Open Shell; rpt from * to next
corner; work other 3 sides in same way, join, fasten off. Rnd 5—With I
work 1 sc in center dc of a Black Shell, * work 5 dc around post of
center dc of next Open Shell directly below 2nd row down, 1 sc in top of
center dc of next Black Shell; rpt from * around, join, fasten off. Rnd
6—With D work 1 sc in each st around, join, fasten off.

    [Illustration: EMPIRE AFGHAN]




                        CONCORD AFGHAN No. 3281


                Approximate Size 50 inches by 74 inches

  MATERIALS—
    BEAR BRAND DELUXE KNITTING WORSTED, 64 ozs. Oyster No. 81 (L)
    or FLEISHER’S SUPERIOR KNITTING WORSTED, 64 ozs. Oyster No. 181 (L)
  “Boye” 9-inch Crochet Hook, Size F.
  “Boye” 5½-inch Crochet Hook, Size 3 (F).
  GAUGE: Afghan-St—
    9 sts = 2 inches
    9 rows = 2 inches

                         COLOR KEY FOR EMBROIDERY
  Color Key QUANTITY           BUCILLA EVER-MATCH TAPESTRY WOOL

      A      80 yds.                   Fern Green—1920
      B     160 yds.                   Fern Green—1923
      C     140 yds.                   Fern Green—1924
      D     300 yds.                      Brown—1982
      E     100 yds.                      Brown—1969
      F     100 yds.                   Clover Rose—1942
      G     100 yds.                   Clover Rose—1943
      H     140 yds.                   Clover Rose—1945
      J     100 yds.                   Clover Rose—1949
      K     100 yds.                      Plum—1897

AFGHAN ST PANEL (MAKE 3)—Using 9-in. hook, with L, ch 51, work in
Afghan-st (see page 23) for 304 rows. Finish off with a row of sl sts,
fasten off.

EMBROIDERY—Embroider each Panel in cross-st embroidery following chart,
page 22, beginning on 4th row from lower edge, work 2 full repeats of
chart and 88 rows only of 3rd repeat.

POM-PONS—Wind yarn 39 times around ½-in. cardboard (winding over a 9-in.
tie thread), tie firmly at one end, cut at opposite end (use tie thread
to sew pom-pons in place). Trim to shape as shown. Make 39 pom-pons with
color D; 42 each with F and K; 30 each with H and J; 9 with G. Sew
pom-pons in place as shown on chart.

PATTERN PANEL (MAKE 2)—With L, ch 22, work 1 row in Afghan-st. Row
2—Insert hook under next vertical bar and draw up a loop (plain
Afghan-st), work Purled Afghan-st as follows: * keeping yarn in front of
work, insert hook under next vertical bar, keeping yarn under hook,
bring yarn to back of work, yo and thru 1 loop on hook (Purled Afghan-st
made), keeping yarn in back, insert hook under next vertical bar and
draw up a loop (plain Afghan-st made); rpt from * across (22 loops on
hook); work off loops as for Afghan-st. Row 3—* Work a Purled Afghan-st
in next bar, a plain Afghan-st in next bar; rpt from * to last bar, draw
up a loop thru last bar (22 loops on hook); work off loops as for
Afghan-st. Rpt rows 2 and 3 alternately until 304 rows from beginning.
Finish off with a row of sl sts, fasten off.

BORDER FOR PATTERN PANEL—Using 5½-in. crochet hook, with L, make a loop
on hook, from wrong side, working along long side of Panel, work a
Puff-st in end st of first row as follows: yo, draw up a loop in end st,
yo, draw thru 2 loops on hook, * yo, draw up a loop in same st, yo, thru
2 loops; rpt from * once, yo, thru all 4 loops on hook, keep Puff-st to
right side, ch 1 (Puff-st made), † draw up a loop in end st of each of
next 2 rows, yo, thru 3 loops on hook (dec.-st made), work a Puff-st in
next row; rpt from † across, fasten off. Row 2 (right side)—Turn, with
D, work 1 sc in each st across (304 sc), fasten off. Row 3—With H, rpt
row 2. Row 4—With B, rpt row 2. Row 5—From wrong side, with L, * work a
Puff-st in first sc, a dec.-st in next 2 sc; rpt from * across, fasten
off. Work same Border on opposite side of Panel. Arrange Panels in place
as shown in illustration. From wrong side, with L, sew Panels together.

EDGING ALONG SIDES OF AFGHAN—From right side, with L, work 1 sc in end
st of each row, fasten off. Rpt row 5 of Border. FRINGE—Wind color L
around a 4½-in. cardboard, cut at one end. Tie a 3-strand fringe in
every other st along top and bottom of Afghan.

    [Illustration: CONCORD AFGHAN]




                         DURBAR AFGHAN No. 2774


                Approximate Size 50 inches by 72 inches

                                 COLOR KEY
       QUANTITY                            MATERIALS
  Color Key  Ounces       Bear Brand DeLuxe        Fleisher’s Superior
             Needed       Knitting Worsted          Knitting Worsted

      A        12          Russet Brown 43          Russet Brown 143
      B         7          Russet Brown 40          Russet Brown 140
      C        10         Russet Brown 384          Russet Brown 484
      D         7         Russet Brown 383          Russet Brown 483
      E         7         Russet Brown 381          Russet Brown 481
      F         7         Russet Brown 380          Russet Brown 480
      G         7             Yellow 53                Yellow 153
                7               White                     White
                4               Black                     Black

  “Boye” Crochet Hook, Size 3 (F).
  GAUGE:
    15 sts = 4 inches
    9 rows = 2 inches

Row 1 (right side)—With A ch 266. Sc in 2nd ch from hook, sc in each
remaining ch (265 sc in row). Row 2—Ch 1, turn, sc in each sc across.
Row 3—Ch 1, turn, sc in first sc, work 1 dc around post of first sc of
row 1, skip next sc (sc behind the dc just made), sc in each of next 5
sc, * work 1 dc around post of 6th sc from last dc worked in Row 1, skip
next sc (sc behind the dc just made), sc in each of next 5 sc; rpt from
* across, fasten off. Row 4 (wrong side)—Turn, with B loop on hook, work
1 sc in each st across (265 sc). Row 5—Ch 1, turn, sc in each of first 2
sc, work 1 dc around post of first dc below, skip next sc (sc behind the
dc), sc in each of next 5 sc, * work 1 dc around post of next dc below,
skip next sc, sc in each of next 5 sc; rpt from * across, end with 4 sc,
fasten off. Row 6—Turn, with C loop on hook, work 1 sc in each st
across. Row 7—Ch 1, turn, sc in each of first 3 sc, * 1 dc around post
of dc below, skip next sc, sc in each of next 5 sc; rpt from * across,
end with 3 sc, fasten off. Row 8—Turn, with D, sc in each st across. Row
9—Ch 1, turn, sc in each of 4 sc, * 1 dc around post of dc below, skip
next sc, sc in each of next 5 sc; rpt from * across, end with 2 sc,
fasten off. Row 10—Turn, with E, sc in each st across. Row 11—Ch 1,
turn, sc in each of 5 sc, * 1 dc around post of dc below, skip next sc,
sc in each of next 5 sc; rpt from * across, end with 1 sc, fasten off.
Row 12—Turn, with F, sc in each st across. Row 13—Ch 1, turn, sc in each
of 6 sc, * 1 dc around post of dc below, skip next sc, sc in each of
next 5 sc; rpt from * across, end with 6 sc, fasten off. Row 14—Turn,
with G, sc in each st across. Row 15—Ch 1, turn, sc in first sc, 1 dc
around post of first sc 2nd row down, skip next sc, sc in each of next 5
sc, * 1 dc around post of dc below, skip next sc, sc in each of next 5
sc; rpt from * across, fasten off. Rpt rows 4 to 15 inclusive for
pattern using 2 rows (1 sc row, 1 pattern row) of each of the following
colors: White, Black, White, G, F, E, D, C, B, A, A, A, B, C, D, E, F.
Rpt rows 14 to 49 inclusive 4 times then rpt rows 14 to 35.

BORDER—Work all rounds from right side—Rnd 1—With C loop on hook, work 1
sc in each st along long side of Afghan, a group of 3 sc in next corner
st, 1 sc in end of each row on short side of Afghan, a group of 3 sc in
corner st (having a multiple of 4 plus 1 sts from corner st to corner
st). Work other 2 sides to correspond; join (with sl st) in first sc,
fasten off. Rnd 2—With C loop on hook, work 1 sc in sc before any corner
3-sc group, ch 1, skip next sc, work a Puff-st in center sc (corner st)
of corner 3-sc group as follows: yo, draw up a loop in sc, * yo, draw up
another loop in same sc; rpt from * once, yo and draw thru all 7 loops
on hook, ch 1 (Puff-st made), ch 1, skip next sc, sc in next sc, ch 1,
skip next sc, a Puff-st in next sc, ch 1, skip next sc, sc in next sc;
continue in same way around making sure to have a Puff-st in each corner
sc, join, fasten off. Rnd 3—With A work 3 sc in top of any Puff-st, sc
in next ch-1 sp, skip next sc, sc in next ch-1 sp, 3 sc in top of next
Puff-st; continue in same way around, join, fasten off.

    [Illustration: DURBAR AFGHAN]




                       EVERGREEN AFGHAN No. 3282


                Approximate Size 50 inches by 72 inches

  MATERIALS—BEAR BRAND or FLEISHER’S EVER-MATCH NYLON ’N WOOL.
          GERMANTOWN SPORT, Light Color 28 ozs.; Dark Color 10 ozs.
  “Boye” 9-inch Knitting Needles, 1 pair Size 6.
  GAUGE: Pattern Strip—
    8½ inches in width
    6 rows = 1 inch
  GAUGE: Narrow Strip—2 inches in width

PATTERN STRIP (MAKE 5)—With Light Color, cast on 42 sts. Row 1—K 2, * p
2, yo, k 1, yo, p 2, k 2, k 2 tog., k 3; rpt from * twice, end, p 2, k 2
(45 sts). Row 2—K 4, * p 6, k 2, p 3, k 2; rpt from * twice, end, k 2.
Row 3—K 2, * p 2, k 1, yo, k 1, yo, k 1, p 2, k 2, k 2 tog., k 2; rpt
from * twice, end, p 2, k 2 (48 sts). Row 4—K 4, * p 5, k 2, p 5, k 2;
rpt from * twice, end, k 2. Row 5—K 2, p 2, * k 2, yo, k 1, yo, k 2, p
2, k 2, k 2 tog., k 1, p 2; rpt from * twice, end, k 2 (51 sts). Row 6—K
4, * p 4, k 2, p 7, k 2; rpt from * twice, end, k 2. Row 7—K 2, p 2, * k
3, yo, k 1, yo, k 3, p 2, k 2, k 2 tog., p 2; rpt from * twice, end, k 2
(54 sts). Row 8—K 4, * p 3, k 2, p 9, k 2; rpt from * twice, end, k 2.
Row 9—K 2, p 2, * k 2, k 2 tog., k 5, p 2, k 1, k 2 tog., p 2; rpt from
* twice, end, k 2 (48 sts). Row 10—K 4, * p 2, k 2, p 8, k 2; rpt from *
twice, end, k 2. Row 11—K 2, p 2, * k 2, k 2 tog., k 4, p 2, k 2 tog., p
2; rpt from * twice, end, k 2 (42 sts). Row 12—K 4, * p 1, k 2, p 7, k
2; rpt from * twice, end, k 2. Row 13—K 2, p 2, * k 2, k 2 tog., k 3, p
2, yo, k 1, yo, p 2; rpt from * twice, end, k 2 (45 sts). Row 14—K 4, *
p 3, k 2, p 6, k 2; rpt from * twice, end, k 2. Row 15—K 2, p 2, * k 2,
k 2 tog., k 2, p 2, k 1, yo, k 1, yo, k 1, p 2; rpt from * twice, end, k
2 (48 sts). Row 16—K 4, * p 5, k 2; rpt from * 5 times, end, k 2. Row
17—K 2, p 2, * k 2, k 2 tog., k 1, p 2, k 2, yo, k 1, yo, k 2, p 2; rpt
from * twice, end, k 2 (51 sts). Row 18—K 4, * p 7, k 2, p 4, k 2; rpt
from * twice, end, k 2. Row 19—K 2, p 2, * k 2, k 2 tog., p 2, k 3, yo,
k 1, yo, k 3, p 2; rpt from * twice, end, k 2 (54 sts). Row 20—K 4, * p
9, k 2, p 3, k 2; rpt from * twice, end, k 2. Row 21—K 2, p 2, * k 1, k
2 tog., p 2, k 2, k 2 tog., k 5, p 2; rpt from * twice, end, k 2 (48
sts). Row 22—K 4, * p 8, k 2, p 2, k 2; rpt from * twice, end, k 2. Row
23—K 2, p 2, * k 2 tog., p 2, k 2, k 2 tog., k 4, p 2; rpt from * twice,
end, k 2 (42 sts). Row 24—K 4, * p 7, k 2, p 1, k 2; rpt from * twice,
end, k 2. Rpt these 24 rows (for pattern) 17 times. Bind off.

NARROW STRIP (MAKE 6)—With Dark Color, cast on 11 sts. Row 1—K 1, p 1
across. Rpt row 1 for pattern until Strip measures same as Pattern
Strip. Bind off. Arrange Strips in place as shown on illustration, from
wrong side, sew Strips together.

FRINGE—Wind yarn around a 4½-in. cardboard, cut at one end. With
matching color, tie a 2 strand Fringe in every other st along short
sides of Afghan.

    [Illustration: EVERGREEN AFGHAN]




                         GRANNY AFGHAN No. 1745


                         (Shown on front cover)

                Approximate Size 50 inches by 71 inches

                                 COLOR KEY
       QUANTITY                            MATERIALS
  Color Key   Ounce       Bear Brand DeLuxe        Fleisher’s Superior
            Needed s      Knitting Worsted          Knitting Worsted

      A         5               Red 4                    Red 104
      B         3               Red 5                    Red 105
      C         4             Green 96                  Green 196
      D         3            Emerald 93                Emerald 193
      E         3             Yellow 52                Yellow 152
      F         1             Orange 56                Orange 156
      G         2         Russet Brown 381          Russet Brown 481
      I         1         Russet Brown 380          Russet Brown 480
      J         3            Lavender 62              Lavender 162
      K         3             Purple 66                Purple 166
      L         6              Grey 60                  Grey 160
      M         4           Turquoise 14              Turquoise 114
      N         2            Geranium 99              Geranium 199
               26               Black                     Black

  “Boye” Crochet Hook, Size 3 (F).
  GAUGE: Each square should measure 4½ inches across center.

There are 19 different color combinations in this Granny Afghan as shown
in the following chart on Page 19.


                      DIRECTIONS FOR GRANNY SQUARE

Rnd 1 (right side)—Ch 5, join (with sl st) to form ring, ch 3, work 2 d
c in ring, ch 2 (for a corner sp), * work a Shell of 3 d c in same sp,
ch 2 (for corner); rpt from * twice, join in top of ch-3 (4 Shells with
a ch-2 sp at each corner), fasten off. Rnd 2—Turn, make a loop on hook,
sl st in any corner ch-2 sp, ch 3, 2 d c in same sp (first Shell), ch 2
(for corner), 1 more Shell in same sp, ch 1, * work [a Shell, ch 2, a
Shell] in next corner ch-2 sp, ch 1; rpt from * twice, join in top of
ch-3, fasten off. Rnd 3—Turn, make a loop on hook, sl st in any corner
ch-2 sp, ch 3, 2 d c in same sp, ch 2 (for corner), 1 more Shell in same
sp, ch 1, * skip next Shell, a Shell in next sp (sp between Shells), ch
1, skip next Shell, work [a Shell, ch 2, a Shell] in next corner ch-2
sp, ch 1; rpt from * around, join in top of ch-3, fasten off. Rnd
4—Turn, make a loop on hook, sl st in any corner ch-2 sp, ch 3, 2 d c in
same sp, ch 2, 1 more Shell in same sp, ch 1, * skip next Shell, a Shell
in next sp (sp between Shells), ch 1, skip next Shell, a Shell in next
sp (sp between Shells), ch 1, skip next Shell, work [a Shell, ch 2, a
Shell] in next corner ch-2 sp, ch 1; rpt from * around, join in top of
ch-3, fasten off. Rnd 5 (right side)—Turn, make a loop on hook, sl st in
any corner ch-2 sp, ch 3, 2 d c in same sp, ch 2, 1 more Shell in same
sp, ch 1, † * skip next Shell, a Shell in next sp (sp between Shells),
ch 1; rpt from * twice, skip next Shell, work [a Shell, ch 2, a Shell]
in next corner ch-2 sp, ch 1; rpt from † around, join in top of ch-3,
fasten off.

Make squares in following color combinations: 48 squares of No. 1—8
squares of No. 2—7 squares of No. 3—6 squares of No. 4—5 squares of No.
5—5 squares of No. 6—3 squares of No. 7—2 squares of No. 8—10 squares of
No. 9—9 squares of No. 11—9 squares of No. 12—9 squares of No. 13—9
squares of No. 14—10 squares of No. 15—7 squares of No. 16—6 squares of
No. 17—5 squares of No. 18—4 squares of No. 19 and 3 squares of No. 20.

Using rustproof pins, pin each square to measure 4½ inches square and
steam lightly. Let dry before removing pins.

When all Granny Squares are blocked, arrange squares in place as shown
on arrangement chart below. From wrong side, with Black, sew squares
together with an overhand stitch picking top loops of stitches only.

BORDER AROUND AFGHAN—From right side, with Black, † work [a Shell, ch 2,
a Shell] in corner sp, * ch 1, a Shell in next sp between Shells; rpt
from * to next corner of Afghan, ch 1; rpt from † around, join in first
d c, fasten off.

              Arrangement Chart

   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1
   1  11   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   1
   1  12  11   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   1
   1  13  12  11   2   3   4   5   6   7   1
   1  14  13  12  11   2   3   4   5   6   1
   1   9  14  13  12  11   2   3   4   5   1
   1  15   9  14  13  12  11   2   3   4   1
   1  16  15   9  14  13  12  11   2   3   1
   1  17  16  15   9  14  13  12  11   2   1
   1  18  17  16  15   9  14  13  12  11   1
   1  19  18  17  16  15   9  14  13  12   1
   1  20  19  18  17  16  15   9  14  13   1
   1  15  20  19  18  17  16  15   9  14   1
   1   9  15  20  19  18  17  16  15   9   1
   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1

Each Granny Square is made of 5 rounds, refer to and follow Color
Combination Chart for color used in each round.

                          COLOR COMBINATION CHART
 COMBINATION  1st ROUND    2nd ROUND    3rd ROUND    4th ROUND   5th ROUND

 No. 1       Yellow, E    Green, C     Red, A       Black        Black
 No. 2       Yellow, E    Turquoise, M Russet       Turquoise, M Black
                                       Brown, G
 No. 3       Orange, F    Purple, K    Emerald, D   Lavender, J  Black
 No. 4       Yellow, E    Turquoise, M Geranium, N  Grey, L      Black
 No. 5       Red, A       Yellow, E    Red, A       Emerald, D   Black
 No. 6       Turquoise, M Geranium, N  Grey, L      Turquoise, M Black
 No. 7       Emerald, D   Lavender, J  Orange, F    Purple, K    Black
 No. 8       Yellow, E    Emerald, D   Turquoise, M Grey, L      Black
 No. 9       Yellow, E    Red, A       Grey, L      Red, B       Black
 No. 11      Emerald, D   Geranium, N  Russet       Red, B       Black
                                       Brown, I
 No. 12      Geranium, N  Grey, L      Emerald, D   Grey, L      Black
 No. 13      Orange, F    Lavender, J  Purple, K    Russet       Black
                                                    Brown, G
 No. 14      Turquoise, M Red, A       Grey, L      Turquoise, M Black
 No. 15      Emerald, D   Lavender, J  Green, C     Purple, K    Black
 No. 16      Emerald, D   Grey, L      Purple, K    Yellow, E    Black
 No. 17      Emerald, D   Grey, L      Geranium, N  Grey, L      Black
 No. 18      Red, A       Red, B       Green, C     Lavender, J  Black
 No. 19      Orange, F    Turquoise, M Grey, L      Turquoise, M Black
 No. 20      Red, A       Russet       Red, B       Russet       Black
                          Brown, G                  Brown, I




                       IF AFGHANS ARE YOUR HOBBY
              YOU’LL WANT THESE POPULAR AFGHAN BOOKS TOO!


_The store where you purchased this book also has these Afghan Books
containing smart new designs to knit or crochet._

    [Illustration: CONTEMPORARY AND PERIOD
    afghans
    TO KNIT OR CROCHET
    IN BEAR BRAND OR FLEISHER Yarns
    VOL. 42 60¢
    Vol. 42—“Contemporary and Period” Afghans

    12 stunning new decorator designs in contemporary and period styles
    to enhance every decorating scheme. Both knitted and crocheted
    styles, all fascinating, easy and fun to do ... all beautifully
    illustrated in full color.
                                                                60¢ copy]

    [Illustration: MODERN and _Traditional_
    AFGHANS
    to knit or crochet
    in BEAR BRAND and FLEISHER YARNS
    VOL. 36
    50¢
    Vol. 36—“Modern and Traditional” Afghans

    This book contains eleven beautiful modern and traditional
    afghans—some knitted, some crocheted, some embroidered ... all easy
    and interesting to make, all handsomely illustrated in full color
                                                                50¢ copy]


                 Charts For “Heritage” Afghan No. 3280

                            (Shown on Page 5)

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

  A—Ash Rose                 1953
  B—Red                      4 or 104
  C—Red                      5 or 105
  D—Red                      6 or 106
  E—Cardinal                 8 or 108
  F—Maroon                   12 or 112
  G—Italian Blue             1998
  H—French Blue              1999
  J—Colonial Blue            1963
  K—Colonial Blue            1989
  M—Antique Gold             1984
  N—Brown                    1969
  O—Fern Green               1920
  P—Fern Green               1921
  S—Fern Green               1924
  R—Soft Green               1867
  Y—Teal Blue                1950
  U—Teal Blue                1951
  V—White                    1928
  X—Grey                     1940
  T—Grey                     1940


                  Charts For “Pilgrim” Afghan No. 2024

                         (_Shown on back cover_)

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

  A—Rose Beige               1900
  B—Coppertone               1995
  C—Dark Copper              1996
  D—Plum                     1897
  E—Russet Brown             384 or 484
  L—Russet Brown             40 or 140
  N—Green                    95 or 195
  H—Green                    96 or 196
  J—Green                    97 or 197
  K—Green                    80 or 180


                  Chart for “Concord” Afghan No. 3281

                           (_Shown on Page 13_)

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

       Embroidery

  A—Fern Green    1920
  B—Fern Green    1923
  C—Fern Green    1924
  D—Brown         1982
  E—Brown         1969

        Pom-Pons

  D—Brown         1982
  F—Clover Rose   1942
  G—Clover Rose   1943
  H—Clover Rose   1945
  J—Clover Rose   1949
  K—Plum          1897


                   Chart for Knitted Ripple No. 2757

                           (_Shown on Page 7_)

    [Illustration: RUST OMBREE OMBREE RUST]


                   Details of Cross Stitch Embroidery

    [Illustration: No. 1]

    [Illustration: No. 2]

    [Illustration: No. 3]




                             HELPFUL HINTS


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND TERMS USED

  st(s)—stitch(es)
  yo—yarn over
  rnd(s)—round(s)
  k—knit
  p—purl
  rpt—repeat
  tog.—together
  dec.—decrease
  pat.—pattern

An asterisk (*) or dagger (†) indicates that the directions immediately
following are to be repeated the given number of times, in addition to
the original. Thus “rpt from * (†) 3 times” means to make pattern 4
times in all.

[ ] All sts within brackets are to be worked in same st or place.
Example: [1 sc, 1 dc, 1 sc] in next st. means to work 1 sc, then 1 dc,
then 1 sc all in same next st.

ch (chain st)—Make a loop on hook (to begin work), * yo, draw thru loop;
rpt from *; each rpt is 1 ch st.

sl st (slip st)—Insert hook in st, yo, draw thru st and loop on hook.

sc (single crochet)—Draw up a loop in st (now having 2 loops on hook),
yo, draw thru 2 loops on hook.

dc (double crochet)—Yo, draw up a loop in st, yo, draw thru 2 loops on
hook, yo, draw thru last 2 loops on hook.

tr (treble crochet)—Yo twice, draw up a loop in st, [yo, draw thru 2
loops on hook] 3 times.


                             AFGHAN STITCH—

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

Make a chain the desired length. Row 1—_Work in Afghan Stitch as
follows:_ draw up a loop in 2nd chain from hook and each remaining chain
(there will be the same number of loops on hook as the number of chains
made), _complete row as follows:_ yo, draw thru 1 loop on hook, working
back, * yo, draw thru 2 loops on hook; rpt from * across. Row 2—Draw up
a loop in 2nd bar from edge, draw up a loop in each remaining bar (there
will be the same number of loops on hook as for first row), complete row
as before. Rpt row 2 for pattern for the required number of rows.


                 TO BLOCK CROCHETED OR KNITTED AFGHANS

Spread a pad (on a table or on the floor) on which the afghan can be
stretched and pinned. Having wrong side up, pin afghan on pad (using
rustproof pins) about every inch, stretching it to the given
measurements. Lay a damp cloth over it, pass a hot iron lightly over the
cloth allowing the steam to go through the material but _do not let the
weight of the iron rest or press on it_. Leave afghan pinned down until
dry.

                                                     PRINTED IN U.S.A.—4

    [Illustration: 2024 (See Page 6)]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Relocated material “continued on remote page” for more
  conveniently-flowing text.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Your All-time Favorite Afghans to Knit
or Crochet, by Anonymous

